---
date: 2021-11-15
title: 'OUStralopithecus: Overt User Simulation for Censorship Circumvention'
extra:
    featured: true
    authors: "Anna Harbluk Lorimer, Lindsey Tulloch, Cecylia Bocovich and Ian Goldberg"
    link: https://cypherpunks.ca/~iang/pubs/oustral-wpes21.pdf
    bibtex: /media/oustral.bib
    pubtype: Article
    journal: 20th ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society
    pg: 14
    pubyear: November 2021


description: "In this paper we present our design and evaluation of OUStralopithecus (OUStral), a web-based Overt User Simulator that generates 
replaceable human-like traffic for use in decoy-routing-like censorhsip circumvenion systems. "

taxonomies:
    tags:
        - Privacy Enhancing Technologies
        - Censorship Resistance
        - Decoy Routing
        - User Simulation

---

In many parts of the world, censors are continuously increasing their capacity to fingerprint, identify, and block censorship resistance tools<br /> 
to maintain control over what can and can not be accessed over the Internet. In response, traffic replacement, which involves co-opting a steady <br />
stream of uncensored overt traffic to serve as a perfect cover for censored covert content, has been developed in an effort to provide undetectable <br />
access to the open Internet for those in censored regions. Despite the promise of this technique, creating a suitable stream of uncensored overt traffic <br />
that is high throughput, fingerprint and identification resistant, and does not overburden the user to generate, is an underexplored area that is critical <br />
to traffic replacement's success. To address this, we propose OUStralopithecus (OUStral for short), a web-based Overt User Simulator (OUS) that browses the <br />
web as a human would in order to avoid being detected by a censor. We implement OUStral as a Python library that can be added to an existing traffic-replacement <br />
system. To evaluate OUStral we connect it to an existing traffic replacement system, Slitheen, that replaces media data such as images. Additionally, we<br />
implement WebM video replacement for Slitheen to demonstrate the high throughput that OUStral is able to provide. We show that OUStral evades being detected <br />
as a bot by state-of-the-art bot detection software while providing a high-throughput overt data channel for covert data replacement.
